README.rst, before:

|pypi| |actions| |codecov| |downloads| |maintainability| |black|



README
======

Install with pip::

    pip install django-multisite2


Quickstart
----------

Replace your SITE_ID in settings.py to::

    from multisite import SiteID
    SITE_ID = SiteID(default=1)

Add these to your INSTALLED_APPS::

    INSTALLED_APPS = [
        ...
        'django.contrib.sites',
        'multisite',
        ...
    ]

Add to your settings.py TEMPLATES loaders in the OPTIONS section::

    TEMPLATES = [
        ...
        {
            ...
            'DIRS': {...}
            'OPTIONS': {
                'loaders': (
                    'multisite.template.loaders.filesystem.Loader',
                    'django.template.loaders.app_directories.Loader',
                )
            }
            ...
        }
        ...
    ]

Edit settings.py MIDDLEWARE::

    MIDDLEWARE = (
        ...
        'multisite.middleware.DynamicSiteMiddleware',
        ...
    )

Append to settings.py, in order to use a custom cache that can be
safely cleared::

    # The cache connection to use for django-multisite.
    # Default: 'default'
    CACHE_MULTISITE_ALIAS = 'multisite'

    # The cache key prefix that django-multisite should use.
    # If not set, defaults to the KEY_PREFIX used in the defined
    # CACHE_MULTISITE_ALIAS or the default cache (empty string if not set)
    CACHE_MULTISITE_KEY_PREFIX = ''

If you have set CACHE\_MULTISITE\_ALIAS to a custom value, *e.g.*
``'multisite'``, add a separate backend to settings.py CACHES::

    CACHES = {
        'default': {
            ...
        },
        'multisite': {
            'BACKEND': 'django.core.cache.backends.locmem.LocMemCache',
            'TIMEOUT': 60 * 60 * 24,  # 24 hours
            ...
        },
    }

Development Environments
------------------------
Multisite returns a valid Alias when in "development mode" (defaulting to the
alias associated with the default SiteID.

Development mode is either:
    - Running tests, i.e. manage.py test
    - Running locally in settings.DEBUG = True, where the hostname is a top-level name, i.e. localhost

In order to have multisite use aliases in local environments, add entries to
your local etc/hosts file to match aliases in your applications.  E.g. ::

    127.0.0.1 example.com
    127.0.0.1 examplealias.com

And access your application at example.com:8000 or examplealias.com:8000 instead of
the usual localhost:8000.


Domain fallbacks
----------------

By default, if the domain name is unknown, multisite will respond with
an HTTP 404 Not Found error. To change this behaviour, add to
settings.py::

    # The view function or class-based view that django-multisite will
    # use when it cannot match the hostname with a Site. This can be
    # the name of the function or the function itself.
    # Default: None
    MULTISITE_FALLBACK = 'django.views.generic.base.RedirectView

    # Keyword arguments for the MULTISITE_FALLBACK view.
    # Default: {}
    MULTISITE_FALLBACK_KWARGS = {'url': 'http://example.com/',
                                 'permanent': False}

Templates
---------
If required, create template subdirectories for domain level templates (in a
location specified in settings.TEMPLATES['DIRS'].

Multisite's template loader will look for templates in folders with the names of
domains, such as::

    templates/example.com


The template loader will also look for templates in a folder specified by the
optional MULTISITE_DEFAULT_TEMPLATE_DIR setting, e.g.::

    templates/multisite_templates


Cross-domain cookies
--------------------

In order to support `cross-domain cookies`_,
for purposes like single-sign-on,
prepend the following to the top of
settings.py MIDDLEWARE (MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES for Django < 1.10)::

    MIDDLEWARE = (
        'multisite.middleware.CookieDomainMiddleware',
        ...
    )

CookieDomainMiddleware will consult the `Public Suffix List`_
for effective top-level domains.
It caches this file
in the system's default temporary directory
as ``effective_tld_names.dat``.
To change this in settings.py::

    MULTISITE_PUBLIC_SUFFIX_LIST_CACHE = '/path/to/multisite_tld.dat'

By default,
any cookies without a domain set
will be reset to allow \*.domain.tld.
To change this in settings.py::

    MULTISITE_COOKIE_DOMAIN_DEPTH = 1  # Allow only *.subdomain.domain.tld

In order to fetch a new version of the list,
run::

    manage.py update_public_suffix_list

.. _cross-domain cookies: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_cookie#Domain_and_Path
.. _Public Suffix List: http://publicsuffix.org/


Tests
-----

To run the tests::

    python runtests.py



.. |pypi| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/django-multisite.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-multisite

.. |actions| image:: https://github.com/erikvw/django-multisite/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg
  :target: https://github.com/erikvw/django-multisite/actions/workflows/build.yml

.. |codecov| image:: https://codecov.io/gh/erikvw/django-multisite/branch/develop/graph/badge.svg
  :target: https://codecov.io/gh/erikvw/django-multisite

.. |downloads| image:: https://pepy.tech/badge/django-multisite
   :target: https://pepy.tech/project/django-multisite

.. |maintainability| image:: https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/d280e92995a883a4f8db/maintainability
   :target: https://codeclimate.com/github/erikvw/django-multisite/maintainability
   :alt: Maintainability

.. |black| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg
   :target: https://github.com/ambv/black
   :alt: Code Style

Commit message:

add settings attr to not connect post_migrate_sync_alias. Update README

README.rst, after:

|pypi| |actions| |codecov| |downloads| |maintainability| |black|



README
======

Install with pip::

    pip install django-multisite2


Quickstart
----------

Replace your SITE_ID in settings.py to::

    from multisite import SiteID
    SITE_ID = SiteID(default=1)

Add these to your INSTALLED_APPS::

    INSTALLED_APPS = [
        ...
        'django.contrib.sites',
        'multisite',
        ...
    ]

Add to your settings.py TEMPLATES loaders in the OPTIONS section::

    TEMPLATES = [
        ...
        {
            ...
            'DIRS': {...}
            'OPTIONS': {
                'loaders': (
                    'multisite.template.loaders.filesystem.Loader',
                    'django.template.loaders.app_directories.Loader',
                )
            }
            ...
        }
        ...
    ]

Edit settings.py MIDDLEWARE::

    MIDDLEWARE = (
        ...
        'multisite.middleware.DynamicSiteMiddleware',
        ...
    )

Append to settings.py, in order to use a custom cache that can be
safely cleared::

    # The cache connection to use for django-multisite.
    # Default: 'default'
    CACHE_MULTISITE_ALIAS = 'multisite'

    # The cache key prefix that django-multisite should use.
    # If not set, defaults to the KEY_PREFIX used in the defined
    # CACHE_MULTISITE_ALIAS or the default cache (empty string if not set)
    CACHE_MULTISITE_KEY_PREFIX = ''

If you have set CACHE\_MULTISITE\_ALIAS to a custom value, *e.g.*
``'multisite'``, add a separate backend to settings.py CACHES::

    CACHES = {
        'default': {
            ...
        },
        'multisite': {
            'BACKEND': 'django.core.cache.backends.locmem.LocMemCache',
            'TIMEOUT': 60 * 60 * 24,  # 24 hours
            ...
        },
    }

Development Environments
------------------------
Multisite returns a valid Alias when in "development mode" (defaulting to the
alias associated with the default SiteID.

Development mode is either:
    - Running tests, i.e. manage.py test
    - Running locally in settings.DEBUG = True, where the hostname is a top-level name, i.e. localhost

In order to have multisite use aliases in local environments, add entries to
your local etc/hosts file to match aliases in your applications.  E.g. ::

    127.0.0.1 example.com
    127.0.0.1 examplealias.com

And access your application at example.com:8000 or examplealias.com:8000 instead of
the usual localhost:8000.


Domain fallbacks
----------------

By default, if the domain name is unknown, multisite will respond with
an HTTP 404 Not Found error. To change this behaviour, add to
settings.py::

    # The view function or class-based view that django-multisite will
    # use when it cannot match the hostname with a Site. This can be
    # the name of the function or the function itself.
    # Default: None
    MULTISITE_FALLBACK = 'django.views.generic.base.RedirectView

    # Keyword arguments for the MULTISITE_FALLBACK view.
    # Default: {}
    MULTISITE_FALLBACK_KWARGS = {'url': 'http://example.com/',
                                 'permanent': False}

Templates
---------
If required, create template subdirectories for domain level templates (in a
location specified in settings.TEMPLATES['DIRS'].

Multisite's template loader will look for templates in folders with the names of
domains, such as::

    templates/example.com


The template loader will also look for templates in a folder specified by the
optional MULTISITE_DEFAULT_TEMPLATE_DIR setting, e.g.::

    templates/multisite_templates


Cross-domain cookies
--------------------

In order to support `cross-domain cookies`_,
for purposes like single-sign-on,
prepend the following to the top of
settings.py MIDDLEWARE (MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES for Django < 1.10)::

    MIDDLEWARE = (
        'multisite.middleware.CookieDomainMiddleware',
        ...
    )

CookieDomainMiddleware will consult the `Public Suffix List`_
for effective top-level domains.
It caches this file
in the system's default temporary directory
as ``effective_tld_names.dat``.
To change this in settings.py::

    MULTISITE_PUBLIC_SUFFIX_LIST_CACHE = '/path/to/multisite_tld.dat'

By default,
any cookies without a domain set
will be reset to allow \*.domain.tld.
To change this in settings.py::

    MULTISITE_COOKIE_DOMAIN_DEPTH = 1  # Allow only *.subdomain.domain.tld

In order to fetch a new version of the list,
run::

    manage.py update_public_suffix_list

.. _cross-domain cookies: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_cookie#Domain_and_Path
.. _Public Suffix List: http://publicsuffix.org/

Post-migrate signal: post_migrate_sync_alias
--------------------------------------------
The `post-migrate` signal `post_migrate_sync_alias` is registered in the `apps.py`. `post_migrate_sync_alias`
ensures the `domain` in multisite's `Alias` model is updated to match that of django's `Site` model. This signal must
run AFTER any `post-migrate` signals that manipulate Django's `Site` model. If you have an app that manipulates Django's
`Site` model, place it before `multisite` in `settings. INSTALLED_APPS`. If this is not possible, you may configure `multisite`
to not connect the `post-migrate` signal in `apps.py` so that you can do it somewhere else in your code.

To configure `multisite` to not connect the `post-post_migrate_sync_alias` in the `apps.py`, update your settings::

    MULTISITE_REGISTER_POST_MIGRATE_SYNC_ALIAS = False

With the `settings` attribute set to `False`, it is your responsibility to connect the signal in your code. Note that if you do not sync the `Alias` and `Site`
models after the `Site` model has changed, multisite may not recognize the domain and switch to the fallback view or
raise a `Http404` error.

Tests
-----

To run the tests::

    python runtests.py



.. |pypi| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/django-multisite.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-multisite

.. |actions| image:: https://github.com/erikvw/django-multisite/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg
  :target: https://github.com/erikvw/django-multisite/actions/workflows/build.yml

.. |codecov| image:: https://codecov.io/gh/erikvw/django-multisite/branch/develop/graph/badge.svg
  :target: https://codecov.io/gh/erikvw/django-multisite

.. |downloads| image:: https://pepy.tech/badge/django-multisite
   :target: https://pepy.tech/project/django-multisite

.. |maintainability| image:: https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/d280e92995a883a4f8db/maintainability
   :target: https://codeclimate.com/github/erikvw/django-multisite/maintainability
   :alt: Maintainability

.. |black| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg
   :target: https://github.com/ambv/black
   :alt: Code Style
